---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome"
date:   2016-03-14
author: Shaina Karasin
categories: Adventures
tags:	
cover:  "/assets/instacode.png"
---
Hello and welcome! I’d like to use this first blog post to give you a sense of where I’m coming from and the journey I’ve just embarked upon. I hope you’ll enjoy following my adventures, and perhaps they will inspire one of your own!

For the last three years, I’ve been working with international students as a member of the administrative teams at intensive English language schools in the Boston area. A few weeks ago, after much deliberation and preparation, I left my job and enrolled full-time in [Bloc’s Software Engineering Track](https://www.bloc.io/software-engineering-track) apprenticeship program. 

Many would agree that this was a bold move and a drastic change of career fields, so they’ve asked me why I made the move, and why I chose to study software and web development. This isn’t a simple question with a single answer, but it primarily comes down to Opportunity. I felt stuck in a box with limited opportunities, and I couldn’t see the path that I was on taking me to where I wanted to go in life. So I decided to take control of my trajectory and switch myself onto a new path.

I debated for months what this new path should be. I came up with several ideas for new professions, but none of them quite fit the bill. Then I stumbled onto web development and Bloc’s training programs. As I learned more and let the idea settle longer in my mind, I decided it was the right path for what I wanted to achieve. After earning a degree in Brain & Cognitive Science, I liked the idea of getting back to a field with a more logical, precise methodology. I liked that technical skills could easily lend themselves to a remote work experience or flexible hours in-person, which could give me much greater flexibility and balance in the rest of my life. I liked that there was an endless amount of useful information to learn in the field, so I could continue to learn and grow for the rest of my career. I also liked that I easily found tech communities, in-person and online, that seemed to be very active and supportive. Friendly connections and good working relationships with colleagues make a huge difference in job satisfaction.

I’d had a little programming experience while in college, using Python. I’d also seen some self-taught web-dev-savvy colleagues bring a new school software program into existence and use it to powerfully improve our operational abilities. I think these experiences helped to spark my interest and break down the mental barrier to programming, and then Bloc seemed like the perfect way to train for this new field. It’s all delivered online, so it’s available anywhere anytime, and I don’t have to worry about commuting to classes. It takes a very practical project-based approach to learning, so it’s interesting and I know I’m learning real skills. I never have to worry about highlighting a textbook and falling asleep while reading! It also focuses on the skills I’m currently interested in (front & back end web dev), but provides a foundation in general software engineering principles too, so I’ll have the basics I need to tackle new problems in the future. Lastly, but perhaps most importantly, it provides a 1-on-1 mentor; an experienced professional to help me work through everything I’m learning.

Hopefully, you now have a sense of what I’m doing and why. So let’s embark!
